- Frances-Monerris, A., Hognon, C., Miclot, T., Garcia-Iriepa, C., Iriepa, I., Terenzi, A., Grandemange, S., Barone, G., Marazzi, M. and Monari, A., 2020. Molecular basis of SARS-CoV-2 infection and rational design of potential antiviral agents: modeling and simulation approaches. Journal of proteome research, 19(11), pp.4291-4315.
> Recently, Tian and Tao (60) applied a combination of the Markov state model, transition path theory, and machine learning methodologies to analyze two independent MD trajectories of the up and down states performed by Shaw and coworkers. (65) The authors characterized the transition between the two SARS-CoV-2 RBD states and quantified their relative prevalence, revealing a stunning 95.5% preference for the down state, in agreement with experimental observations. (61) Moreover, multiple paths involving different intermediates leading from the down to the up state were identified and quantified in terms of probability. (60) The most probable channel is illustrated in Figure 2A and has been estimated to have a probability of the 23.7%.

- Grudlewska-Buda, K., Wiktorczyk-Kapischke, N., Wałecka-Zacharska, E., Kwiecińska-Piróg, J., Buszko, K., Leis, K., Juszczuk, K., Gospodarek-Komkowska, E. and Skowron, K., 2021. SARS-CoV-2—morphology, transmission and diagnosis during pandemic, review with element of meta-analysis. Journal of Clinical Medicine, 10(9), p.1962.
> The S1 and S2 SARS-CoV-2 subunits have approximately 64% and 90% similarity to the analogous subunits in SARS-CoV-1, respectively.

- Rahman, T., Du, Y., Zhao, L. and Shehu, A., 2021. Generative adversarial learning of protein tertiary structures. Molecules, 26(5), p.1209.
> There has never perhaps been a better time when protein dynamics has been front and center in the public eye; we point here to a growing number of studies reported broadly in media showing the equilibrium motions of the receptor binding domain, the S1 subunit, of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) spike glycoprotein between a closed to a partially-open structure being key to its ability to bind to the human Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor and so mediate viral entry in human host cells [33,34,35].

- Malik, Y.S., Ansari, M.I., Kattoor, J.J., Kaushik, R., Sircar, S., Subbaiyan, A., Tiwari, R., Dhama, K., Ghosh, S., Tomar, S. and Zhang, K.Y., 2021. Evolutionary and codon usage preference insights into spike glycoprotein of SARS-CoV-2. Briefings in bioinformatics, 22(2), pp.1006-1022.
> Although the partially open RBD plays a significant role in the infection of human cells [30], few studies have reported on this protein conformation, which occurs at the residue level and can play a vital role in the prevention and treatment of the infection.

- Guo, X., Du, Y., Tadepalli, S., Zhao, L. and Shehu, A., 2021. Generating tertiary protein structures via interpretable graph variational autoencoders. Bioinformatics Advances, 1(1), p.vbab036.
> A growing number of studies have shown structural plasticity in action: the receptor-binding domain of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) spike glycoprotein, assumes a closed structure in its stealth mode, where it hides from our antibodies, and a partially open structure in its offense mode, where it binds to the human Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 receptor, thus mediating viral entry in human host cells (Henderson et al., 2020; Majumder et al., 2021; Tian and Tao, 2021).
